When you think of your brain,
view it as a box that contains
all sorts of information
—good and bad.
When you think of your heart,
view it as a bottle
that contains only good information.
Now listen to this vintage, old, 1950’s
Joy dishwashing liquid soap commercial:
“Joy in a bottle beats anything in a box.”
True joy from the heart
beats a head full of knowledge.
What about it?
Are you a joyful person?
What good is it?
Well, the Bible says:
“A joyful heart
makes for a cheerful countenance.”
And it goes on to say:
“A heart that is joyful
does good to the body.”
How does this work?
At times,
your heart will make you smile
when your body is in pain.
For example,
you pass another person
and he or she says, “How are you?”
You smile and say, “Good.”
Your back, feet, and legs are killing you,
but your heart
won’t let you give a negative answer.
There are other more important reasons
to be joyful.
Here’s one:
Jehovah is a joyful person.
At 1 Timothy 1:11,
he is called “the happy God.”
Now, a synonym is the “joyful” God.
He rejoices in his work.
Well, how do we know that?
Well, look at the 104th Psalm
and verse 31:
“The glory of Jehovah will last forever.
Jehovah will rejoice in his works.”
“Jehovah will rejoice in his works.”
Synonyms are having “joy, or delight,”
in his works.
Now, secondly,
Jesus too is a happy worker.
At 1 Timothy chapter 6,
and verses 14 and 15,
he’s called “the happy . . . Potentate.”
Potentate is a powerful ruler.
Yet, he is happy.
It was prophesied of him
at Psalm 40:8:
“To do your will, O my God,
is my delight.”
Now, this means “to please greatly.”
According to John 4:34,
the doing of God’s work was food for him.
It energized him and sustained him.
Doing God’s will was like butter on his bread
and milk in his glass.
Jehovah wants us to rejoice in our work.
Read with me, please,
Ecclesiastes 5:19:
“Also, when the true God gives a man
“riches and material possessions
“along with the ability to enjoy them,
“he should take his reward
“and rejoice in his hard work.
This is the gift of God.”
Housewives and mothers,
rejoice in your work.
Husbands and fathers,
Single men and women,
rejoice in your work.
Widows and widowers,
Old folks,
rejoice in whatever you’re able to do
—just call it work.
Jehovah wants us to be joyful.
Deuteronomy 16:15
comments this way:
“Jehovah your God will bless . . .
“all that you do,
and you will become nothing but joyful.”
The best fathers are happy fathers.
The best husbands are happy husbands.
The best mothers are happy mothers.
The best children are obedient children
—oops, I mean are happy children.
Singing upbuilding songs produces joy.
Levite males sang at the temple.
However, other singers (men and women)
are spoken of in Scripture.
At Acts 16:25, it says:
“But about the middle of the night,
“Paul and Silas were praying
“and praising God with song,
and the prisoners were listening to them.”
Slaves used to sing while working.
They did this to pass the time
and lift their spirits to the highest joy.
They sang out their struggle
—weariness, loneliness,
sorrow, hope,
and determination for a better life.
You can sing in the shower,
just make sure no one is listening.
Count your blessings.
Bathe in the joy that they bring you.
Joy is an aspect of God’s holy spirit.
It is the second of the nine aspects
mentioned at Galatians 5:22.
Pray daily for God’s holy spirit
to be with you in your life.
Read with me Daniel chapter 6,
and verses 10 and 11:
“But as soon as Daniel knew
that the decree had been signed,
“he went to his house,
“which had the windows of his roof chamber
“open toward Jerusalem.
“And three times a day
“he got down on his knees
“and prayed
“and offered praise before his God,
“as he had regularly done prior to this.
“At that time those men burst in
“and found Daniel petitioning
and pleading for favor before his God.”
My wife, Gloria, and I
used to get down on our knees
to pray before going to bed.
Now that we’re old,
we just sit on the side of the bed and pray.
If we get down, we can’t get up.
Keep in mind
that prayer will produce in you joy.
You’re not alone;
Jehovah is with you.
He is never far away.
At Acts 17:27,
Paul told some in Athens:
“He is not far off from each one of us.”
He can see you
and hear you from heaven,
wherever heaven is located.
Never should we feel that we are alone.
Each minute of every day,
Jehovah is right beside us,
looking for opportunities to help us.
Talk to him regularly.
Ask him to give you joy.
Angels too are joyful.
Luke 15:10 says that they’re joyful.
Please look at it as we read it:
“In the same way, I tell you,
“joy arises among the angels of God
over one sinner who repents.”
What do you think?
Are you a joyful person?
Try to remember the box.
Put your mind to it.
And the bottle—put your heart into it.
Copy as best you can
those who are joyful
—Jehovah, Jesus,
the angels,
your spiritual brothers and sisters.
Pray daily for a joyful countenance.
A warm smile does good to the body.
One secular song makes this point.
I won’t sing it.
I’ll just say it:
“Light up your face with gladness.
“Hide every trace of sadness.
“Although a tear may be ever so near,
“that’s the time you must keep on trying.
“Smile, what’s the use of crying?
“You’ll find that life is still worthwhile
if you just smile.”
If you are a joyful person,
thank Jehovah.
If you are lacking joy,
work on being more joyful.
Remember,
Jehovah wants you to be
nothing but joyful.
Let’s make it our aim
to please him with joy.